[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In Skippack, Pennsylvania,
a group of Tibetan monks is
building a sand mandala at
the Dreamcatcher Gift Shop.
[CHANTING]
They have traveled
from their monastery
in South India, where they live
as refugees from their Tibetan
homeland.
There are different
types of sand mandalas
which are constructed
for different purposes
according to sacred
and secret teachings.
On this occasion, a
medicine Buddha mandala
is being created.
This type of mandala is
designed to provide healing
for individuals and
environmental illness.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Through the sand mandala, we
can get the lessons and wisdoms
and the blessing of the
elimination of our delusional
mind.
And thereby, if we eliminate
all those negativities,
then an individual will
realize the fullest potential
of enlightenment to help
countless beings out
of suffering.
Through the teachings, through
the blessings and the wisdom,
we learn how to practice
those ethical behaviors
in our own lives, such as
love, compassion, and kindness.
It will not only bring
good health and long lives
to the individual practitioner,
but it also helps others.
That individual will
be more understanding,
will be more respectful
of everything
that comes in contact
in the individual's
life in every
moment, whether it's
an environment, whether
it's a different species out
in the woods, or it's animals,
or it's a human, your family
or your kids.
So in that way, it has a
ripple effect down the line.
And that creates world
peace and harmony.
>> The construction of the
mandala begins by laying out
the basic geometry according
to methods prescribed
by the monk's training.
Surgical masks are worn
to protect the monks
from breathing in
the fine particles
and to prevent their breath
from disturbing the mandala.
The chakpur is filled
with colored sand
and scraped to produce a
vibration that deposits
the sand.
The size of the
opening on the chakpur,
the intensity of the
vibration, and the height
from the surface with
which the sand is
deposited all determine the
effect that is achieved.
Crushed white marble colored
with organic vegetable
and mineral pigments are used.
The crushed marble is of a finer
texture than ordinary beach
sand.
The monk deposits tiny
amounts of red sand
to lay out the proportions of
the image he will be creating
on the green background.
The mandala is created from
the center outward, starting
with a center
nucleus, a depiction
of a lotus with scripture,
and a parasol representing
the body, speech, and mind
of the medicine Buddha.
After three days, most of the
inner structure of the mandala
is complete.
The monks will continue to work
for the next day and a half
to complete their task.
Each symbol represents
a different aspect
of tantric teaching,
which aims to relieve
the individual
from the suffering
of our everyday
delusional ideas,
the consensus reality that
drives us to seek fulfillment
through ego gains,
striving for social status,
consumerism, competition,
and other forms of behavior
that divide each
individual from another,
and the realization that we are
all aspects of a cosmic unity.
[BELL TOLLING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Since 1949, the communist
Chinese invasion of Tibet,
it's been 50 years of living
under invasion of China.
And there are Tibetan
refugees all over the world
trying to maintain and
preserve whatever cultures
we inherited from thousands
of years of our forefathers.
And we really believe that our
culture, our art and religion
and philosophy, can contribute
to the larger human welfare,
environmental, and human
harmonious coexistence
and interfaith
religious harmony.
So we all appeal to
the American people,
and also to the larger
audience of the world,
support the Tibetan cause.
Tibet has, for 50
years, been suffering
in horrible pain
and sorrow under
the Chinese Communist regime.
As his Holiness the Dalai
Lama says, Tibetans and Tibet
have gone to a hell
under the Chinese regime.
But we have nothing
against the Chinese people.
Initially, the
Communist Chinese came
in Tibet proclaiming to
help and develop Tibet.
In that name, what they did
was a constant degradation
and constant exploitation
of the natural resources
and the environment of Tibet.
Since they came, in the name of
helping Tibetans, what they did
was a mass scale deforestation.
They just took all
of this huge lumber
into China in a huge mass scale.
They would load in
trucks and trucks
day and night for
months and years.
And that's why they
made it barren.
And there was a huge influx
of Chinese migrants from China
to Tibet, and make the
Tibetans minorities
in their own country.
So what they did--
then again started
building lots of houses,
and they just continuously
start deforesting whole areas.
And then there was a mass-scale
exploitation of resources.
There was no checks
and balances.
It's only take, take.
And then with the huge
influx, also China
being the most populous
nation on Earth
and most fastest-growing
economy in the world,
they have so much waste
disposal from so much consumers,
consumerism.
So what they did was they
piled all this garbage
and put it back in Tibet.
It's all just garbage now on
the top of the world in Tibet.
And then also, they load up
and dump huge nuclear waste
in Tibet.
And that has created
not only land pollution,
but it has polluted the air.
It has polluted the water.
And Tibet is the source of
four major rivers to one
of the most populous nations
in the world, China and India
and Southeast Asia.
These rivers go
down, and we always
hear flooding-- flood
problems in Nepal
and Bangladesh, Vietnam,
Cambodia, Laos, and China,
and India.
And it's all because
the Chinese government
policy of rampant environmental
destruction in Tibet
is causing such.
And nobody is taking care of it.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The relationship between
human and the environment,
or the nature, according
to Buddhist perspective,
is we believe in
dependent origination.
Humans are dependent on nature.
We rely on nature,
our basic survival.
It should be an earnest goal,
on part of a human being,
to be taking care
of the environment
and having a respectful
perspective on how
to live a harmonious
relationship and stabilize it.
Because we have the
privilege and honor
to be using the basic
qualities of nature.
We are using wind.
We are using earth, fire, water.
And those are the
sustaining things in life.
Everything else comes secondary.
If you don't have
these four, there's
nothing else you can build on.
So that's basic
survival of the humans.
The resultant effect
is helping ourselves.
>> On the fourth
day of construction,
the mandala is completed.
The mandala represents
the floor plan
of a celestial
palace and functions
as an illustration
of tantric teachings
and as an aid to meditation.
The sand mandala
is a work of art
that is intended to
exist temporarily.
On the fifth day, it
is ritually dismantled.
The dismantling of sand mandala
is a tantric Buddhist ritual.
We see on various levels--
on different levels,
we see change.
And we see destruction.
We see aging.
We see this process
of impermanence.
And it doesn't stay in
one part or one state.
It doesn't stagnate.
There's a continuous
flow, but this is change.
And the change is impermanence.
But it's human or the
environment outside.
So to symbolize and to
remind all the humans
and all the living beings
that somehow, our lives--
both ours as well
as the environment--
is all impermanent.
Nothing stays forever.
So it's a change in progression.
So accordingly, we should
remind ourselves to prioritize
our things in life.
So that's a reminder of
dismantling the sand mandala.
We It's create it
for several days
through such hard
work and dedication,
painstaking concentration
and focus and training
and all the compassion and love.
And it turns out to be
wonderful, beautiful, visual
art, and then it is destroyed.
So that's the
nature impermanence
to remind ourselves.
[CHANTING]
>> The dismantling takes
place with great reverence
in the form of a
puja, or ceremony.
[CHANTING]
A dorje-- a symbol
of male energy--
is used to inscribe
lines into the mandala.
After the dismantling
of the mandala,
the vessel containing
the sand is
prepared for the final
ceremony, where it will be
dispersed into a nearby creek.
>> Dispersement of sand in
the creek or in the river
or in the water body
is to symbolize,
through the course of several
days of creation of sand
mandala, we as humans get the
opportunity and the privilege
and the blessing not
only to see and witness,
but also to get the blessing of
hearing the importance of it,
the teachings of it, the
advantages and different ways
through which we can rise
up to the highest state
of enlightenment.
So, pouring the sand and
dispersing it in the water,
it also gives an
opportunity for all the sea
creatures that the
sand comes in contact
as it washes down through
the water and the river.
Their physical sickness
and physical ailments
will all be healed.
Their mental distress
will be healed.
So, that's the
ultimate motivation,
because it's for all
the sentient beings.
[HORNS BLARING]
[CHANTING]
>> All bodies of water in
the world are interconnected,
and so the dispersing of sand
into a creek or other body
of water is done to share
the blessings embodied
in the mandala with all the
sentient beings of the world.
[HORNS BLARING]
[CHANTING]
Care is taken to only use
color pigments in the sand that
are organic and nontoxic
so that no harm will
be done to the environment.
[CHANTING]